Now combine the method into one Decision-Ready Research Brief.
The brief is not a magic prompt.
It is a compact contract that lets the researcher plan, gather, evaluate, and deliver work against visible expectations.
Field one is decision and audience: who will use the work, what they must decide, and by when.
Field two is question and scope: the main question, region, timeframe, population, comparison set, and exclusions.
Field three is research plan and source strategy: the sub-questions, priority source types, and evaluation criteria.
Field four is evidence standard: which claims need citations, how source quality should be recorded, and how conflicts should be handled.
Field five is gaps and confidence: required unknowns, stop conditions, limitations, and what evidence could change the conclusion.
Field six is deliverable and next action: format, required sections, length, audience, recommendation, evidence appendix, and the decision or follow-up that comes next.
After the first report, use targeted follow-ups instead of restarting vaguely.
Go deeper on the decisive uncertainty.
Validate a contested claim with stronger sources.
Compare two options under the same criteria.
Update the brief when the scope or acceptance standard changes.
The common failure is writing a ceremonial prompt full of context that cannot affect the research.
Every field should change the plan, the evidence, the evaluation, or the deliverable.
If a sentence changes none of those, remove it.
First, package decision, scope, plan, evidence, gaps, and delivery in one brief.
Second, make every field change how the research is performed or reviewed.
Third, iterate by deepening, validating, or comparing the decisive uncertainty.